Add some holistic context on testing and quiz questions. (#3)
DPI-WE/minitest: content.md

# Testing your code with `MiniTest`

> Testing is a critical skill in software development. It helps ensure your code works as expected and remains reliable as it evolves. In this lesson, we'll start by discussing the fundamentals of software testing, including how to gather requirements, write functional requirements using user stories, and develop test plans. Then, we'll introduce [`MiniTest`](https://github.com/minitest/minitest), a testing framework included with Ruby, to write our first unit tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing is a critical skill in software development. It helps ensure your code works as expected and remains reliable as it evolves. In this lesson, we'll start by discussing the fundamentals of software testing, including how to gather requirements, write functional requirements using user stories, and develop test plans. Then, we'll introduce the [`MiniTest`](https://github.com/minitest/minitest) gem to write our first unit tests.
```

Even if it is true that it's included with Ruby, I think this aligns better with the "create a Gemfile" step, and reinforces the concept of "gems"

Reviewer: I realize it is true that it's included with Ruby, so we're definitely lying a bit here with the Gemfile section, but it just fits so nicely with the concept of gems that was just introduced a few lessons ago. What do you think?

Author: I'm ok telling a little fib to teach a point

## The Importance of Testing
Before diving into specific tools and techniques, it's essential to understand why testing is crucial:

- **Quality Assurance**: Testing helps ensure the software meets the desired quality standards, reducing bugs and enhancing user satisfaction.
- **Reliability**: By catching issues early, testing ensures that the software remains stable and reliable over time.

> - **Maintainability**: Well-tested code is easier to maintain and extend because tests provide a safety net for changes and refactoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Maintainability**: Well-tested code is easier to maintain and extend because tests provide a safety net for changes.
```

The concept of "refactoring" isn't introduced until later in the lessons (I believe at some point during Sinatra dice roll). Perhaps best to keep that lingo out at this stage.

> - **Efficiency**: Automated tests can save time and effort compared to manual testing, especially when integrated into continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Efficiency**: Automated tests can save time and effort compared to manual testing.
```

Again, trying to reduce the jargon as much as possible early on.

## Gathering Requirements
The first step in any software development process is gathering requirements. This involves understanding what the users and stakeholders need from the software. Requirements can be divided into two categories:

- **Functional Requirements**: Define what the software should do. These are typically written in the form of user stories.
- **Technical Requirements**: Sometimes called "Non-Functional Requirements", define how the software should perform, including aspects like security, usability, and performance.

## Writing Functional Requirements with User Stories
User stories are simple descriptions of a feature told from the perspective of the person who desires the new capability, usually a user or customer of the system. A typical user story format is:

> "As a [role], I want to be able to [capability], so that [benefit]."

### Example User Story
"As a user of a calculator application, I want to be able to add two numbers, so that I can see the sum."

User stories are the foundation for writing tests because they describe the expected behavior of the software from the user's perspective.

> ## Developing Test Plans

Author: Considering removing "Test Plans" as it feels a bit overkill at this point. Starting with just user stories seems sufficient.

Author: Could replace (or supplement) with an example functional requirements document for this calculator app.

Reviewer: I agree, I think this section is overkill at this point. Up to you / your desires for the "functional requirements" document, but I think that would be best in a separate lesson if at all.

Reviewer: You could have a lesson that follows this lesson in the Run (and comes before the CLI project) called "Developing a Test Plan":

---

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/420e1c8b-1516-4d4a-93eb-ec22666755ba)

---

But I still wonder about overkill

Reviewer: I'm going back on this now. I think it fits here and I don't think this lesson is too long with this section now that I look at it as a whole and how it fits nicely with "User Stories" and the quiz questions below.

- As a [user type], I want [goal], So that [reason].
  - Correct! This format captures the user's needs and the value they expect to gain from the feature.
- If [condition], Then [action].
  - Not quite. This is more like a conditional statement, not a user story.
- Do [task], Then [result].
  - Not quite. This is more like a procedure or task, not a user story.
{: .choose_best #user_story_component title="Components of a User Story" points="1" answer="1" }

- What is the primary purpose of a test plan?
- To outline the strategy and scope for testing a software application.
  - Correct! A test plan helps ensure a systematic approach to testing by defining objectives, scope, strategy, resources, and schedule.
- To write code for the application.
  - Not quite. A test plan focuses on testing, not writing code.
- To define the user's exact requirements.
  - Not quite. A test plan uses requirements but does not define them.
{: .choose_best #test_plan_purpose title="Purpose of a Test Plan" points="1" answer="1" }

- Which of the following should NOT be included in a test plan?
- Test objectives and scope.
  - Not quite. These are essential parts of a test plan.

> - Details of the development environment.
>   - Correct! The development environment details are typically documented elsewhere. A test plan focuses on testing strategies, objectives, and resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Details of the workspace that you are writing code in.
  - Correct! The workspace details are typically documented elsewhere. A test plan focuses on testing strategies, objectives, and resources.
```

Not sold on my suggestion, just a quick idea, but I'm not sure students would know what a "dev environment" is at this point.

Author: they wont understand at this point. "Environment" as a concept is tough to grasp. The Sinatra exercises have gems grouped by environment and the students in the Rails course often ask me about it.

Reviewer: We don't have any content right now around the concepts of "environment". I think there is a definite need for a short lesson on this. Best introduced as you point out during Sinatra when they actually see those grouped Gemfiles. This can be a very short lesson, probably not high priority but good to keep in mind.

Regarding the quiz question, do you have another suggestion for rewording?

Other ideas: 

- "Details of the codespace programming environment" 
- "Details of the ruby version and gems installed in your codespace"

Author: I'm fine with removing this question all together.

Author: I think we can remove the section on "test plans" and focus more on user stories and writing functional requirements as a lead in to testing. https://github.com/DPI-WE/command-line-interface-cli-project/pull/6/files

- Test strategy and schedule.
  - Not quite. These are critical components of a test plan.
{: .choose_best #test_plan_components title="Components of a Test Plan" points="1" answer="2" }

- Why is testing important in software development?
- To ensure the software is built quickly.
  - Not quite. While testing can streamline development in the long run, its primary purpose is to ensure quality and reliability.
- To ensure that the software works as expected and meets quality standards.
  - Correct! Testing verifies that the software behaves correctly under various conditions and meets user and stakeholder expectations.
- To make the software more complex.
  - Not quite. Testing aims to ensure quality, not increase complexity.
{: .choose_best #importance_of_testing title="Importance of Testing" points="1" answer="2" }

- Which of the following is a benefit of automated testing?
- It allows tests to be run automatically, saving time and reducing manual effort.

>   - Correct! Automated testing helps execute tests quickly and consistently, especially when integrated into CI/CD pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Correct! Automated testing helps execute tests quickly and consistently.
```
